---
layout: hackmelayout
title: "Tryhackme Room: Intro to x86-64"
date: 2021-03-13T00:00:00-08:00 
categories: hackme
---

This room provides a basic look at x86-64 assembly language. It goes over rudimentary commandd, functions and procedures of Intel's assembly language. Provided is the r2 reverse engineering framework, which is short for radare2. radare2 is a nifty little tool that lets you look at the instructions of binaries in assembly language, it also comes equipped with numerous functions that let you disassemble, add break points, and a myriad of other things.

<h1>Logging onto Tryhackme's machine</h1>

You are given the ssh login username and password. start Tryhackme's machine and wait for the ip address to be given. Once you have logged on, you are asked to execute a program called **intro**. this program is located in the __/introduction__ directory. 

<h1>Getting started with radare2</h1>
start the executable.

It's a very simple program that assigns and switch's variables.

we are then asked to run the command __r2 -d intro__, which simply opens the intro executable with radare2 in debug mode. 

typing __aa__ will list the most common analysis commands used in radare2.

__e asm.suntax=att__ will set the disassembly syntax to AT&T instead of Intel's.

Running __afl__ (analyze functions list) will list the functions that can be used to analyze the file.

Running __pdf @main__ will dissassmble the __main__ function that was found with the __afl__ command and display it on the command line. these commands will be used to get the answers to the questions, later.

<h1>Radare and Reverse Engineering</h1>>

Now that we have seen a little bit of what radare2 does, we are going to be taking a look at an executable called __if1__ located in the __/if-statement__ directory.

Opening __if1__ with radare2 and using the __aaa__ command will give a more lengthy options list to analyze from. Followed by __afl__ and __pdf @main__ to disassmble the __main__ function.

We are asked to set __break points__ in the __main__ function. We do this with the __db 0xf__ command. The points to be set are the __jge__ and __jmp__ instructions. 

After doing so, running __dc__ will start the exectutable, until it hits the set __break points__.

Using the command __px @rbp-0xf__ will list the disassembled position of the specified variable.

Then, running __ds__ will tell the exectuable to move to the next instruction in the function. 

We are tasked with finding the value of variable __0x8__, __0xc__ and __0x4__, before the __popq__ and __ret__ instructions are executed. To do this, we should set the __break point__ for the instructions right before the __popq__ instruction.

After doing so, we can search the position of __0x8__, returning the correct answer.

We can do the same to find __0xc__ and __0x4__.

The operator used to change the value of __0x8__ can be located in __pdf @main__.

Once thats finished, we will move onto finding variables within and executable loop. This can be done by finding the instruction that creates the loop. 

Then we can execute the loop until its on the second iteration.

Using the __px @rbp-0xf__ command will give us the position of __0x8__ and __0xc__.

And, again, but this time, we will be looking for the variables at the end of the loop. This can be done by finding the instruction right before the __retq__ instruction. In this instance it's __popQ__.


then searching for __0x8 and __0xc__.

<h1>Cracking Some Passwords!!!</h1>

Now, we get to use our new found knowledge to try and crack some good ole' fashion passwords. The files are located in the __/crackme__ directory. Once there, you will find two files. crackme1 and crackme2. Opening up crackme1 with radare2 is what we are supposed to do here, but I chose to just look through the hex of the file, by opening it with the __xxd__ command. 

after taking a short glance at the sparse readible bits of the file, there was an easily noticeable excerpt with and ip address and text displaying wrong/correct password, and given that the answer column in tryhack me just happened to be formatted for an ip address, it seemed pretty likely that, it was the password.


Finding the password to __crackme2__ seemed a simple task... Just use __xxd__ and open the file. Which led to __secret.txt__ in the __install-files__ directory. opening __Secret.txt__ with either cat, or xxd will give you one word _vs3curepwd_. taking this password and running crackme2 in radare with __dc__ will prompt you for a password. If you give them _vs3curepwd_ you will be told the password is incorrect. Reviewing the information about instructions, led to looking and many different parts of __crackme2__ in radare2 using the __pdf @__ command, if you are a programmer, than you could probably sort this out for yourself better than I did. Through research I found that in order to find the password, you need to _"iterate over one in reverse, etc...". well, I'm no programmer, so I just did it the old fashioned way and started with the last letter of the the supposedly wrong password given in __Secret.txt__. Funnily enough, just the d gave me a correct password, but just to be sure, i tried dwp and it also worked, that solidified it being the __secret.txt_ password, but just backwards. 